*) Custom-code Venn diagram generator in JS in such a way as to always show
overalap if some is present. Google-generated Venns have a problem where they
don't show overlap sometimes even though it is present. 

Example: Go to Compare Experiments and compare experiments 9, 10, and 11 (Mouse
Agilent v44_k1) filtered by prefix "Cyp2b".  The 3-circle Venn diagram should be
biased to reflect overlaps if they exist, at the expense of proportionality.

*) A mechanism to purge old session data from `sessions' table in the database.

*) Test Segex on IE on Windows

*) Refuse login after N attempts?

*) Clicking on submit and then hitting Back button in the browser should
preserve selections in CompareExperiments.

*) Add a page to view MySQL logs?
Consider using
http://search.cpan.org/~dnichter/MySQL-Log-ParseFilter-1.00/lib/MySQL/Log/ParseFilter.pm
and parsing only UPDATE logs:
http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/4.1/en/update-log.html
This is potentially complicated (would require filtering to prevent sensitive
info from showing through).

*) In Find Probes, list terms for which matches were and were not found 
Currently, the result page in Find Probes reports something like: "Searched gene
symbols (prefix): term,term,term..." What it should do instead is that it should
list terms for which matches were found in one paragraph, and terms for which
matches were not found in another.


*) Write tests

*) Installation: automate file copying: have user provide only two directories:
CGI_ROOT and DOCUMENTS_ROOT. Create the subtree containing css/, images/, and
js/ directories under DOCUMENTS_ROOT and the subtree corresponding to cgi-bin
under CGI_ROOT.

*) Consider using YUI tooltip control to make forms (e.g. Find Probes, Compare
Experiments) more user-friendly.
http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/examples/container/tooltip.html

*) Raphael is now a plugin for YUI 3: http://yuilibrary.com/gallery/show/raphael
Find out (1) whether changing over to YUI 3 is feasible (seems like it should
be!) and (2) whether Raphael can be used for easy graphing (will probably have
to write own Javascript graphing module).

*) Venn diagrams could be plotted using Raphael. What is needed: optimization
algorithm (implemented in Javascript) for 3-cirlcle diagrams, and something to
show text labels (i.e. how many probes are significant). If done, place
resulting code on Github.

*) Eventually, we need at least two types of database users: segex_basic and
segex_user. segex_user is granted UPDATE, INSERT, DELETE, and CREATE TEMPOARY
privileges, while segex_basic is only granted SELECT.

*) Consider using a Tree View instead of multiple levels of dropdown boxes. YUI
has a Tree View control available. Doing so would make sense -- consider the
following hierarchy:
	species -> platform -> study -> experiment
It's four levels deep!

*) Implement breadcrumbs.
